hello I'm Kylie pentello well we start
with the latest on the Israel Gaza War
where fighting has continued to rage
across Gaza with Fierce tank fire and
air strikes in hanun in southern Gaza
which Israel sees as a stronghold of
Hamas residents have reported intense
gun battles between Israeli troops and
Hamas Fighters there many people have
been trying to move to the southern
Border Town of Rafa which continues to
see an influx of people seeking safety
our correspondent Shima khil sent this
report from
Jerusalem a massive Israeli bombing in
Northern Gaza turns an extensive network
of Hamas tunnels into dust these IDF
pictures show a well equipped
infrastructure of long and branched out
tunnels in which the Army says senior
Hamas members moved and
operated in central Gaza more than
150,000 people were ordered to evacuate
two of the area's biggest refugee camps
and this is where they were told to go
for safety the area of derl Bah itself
reeling from the aftermath of
strikes we were sitting at our homes
peacefully and all of a sudden a missile
hit and destroyed my house my neighbor's
house the whole neighborhood my children
are displaced now and we don't know
where to go have mercy on us help us
it's a devastating
situation people are sleeping on the
streets
in Rafa now gaza's most densely
populated city according to the
UN there's no letup in the
bombardment children were killed here 26
people were killed here I'm terrified
I'm scared and the thought of me being
killed or my my other brother being
killed just crossing my M repeatedly I
already lost my older brother brother I
can't lose my younger brother and this
is what Egypt's seesar proposal is up
against an expanding military operation
in Gaza and a continuing barrage of
Hamas Rockets into Israel a delegation
of Hamas members is in Cairo now for
further discussions but there is no
guarantee that either side is going to
agree to this and if they do it will be
a long drawn out process for now the
displacement continues and gazans are
running out of places to go shy Mahal
BBC News
Jerusalem meanwhile Israel has responded
furiously to South Africa's application
on Friday to the international court of
justice to rule that Israel has carried
out what it called genocidal attacks in
Gaza Israeli foreign Ministry spokes
person Leo haat said Israel rejects with
disgust the blood libl spread by South
Africa in its application to the
international court of justice while he
goes on to say South Africa's claim
constitutes a Despicable and contemp
pous exploitation of the Court well our
Middle East correspondent yolan Nell is
in Jerusalem and she told us more about
that response from the Israelis the
Israeli government isn't sitting today
because it's the Jewish sabbath but this
was a very strongly worded response that
we had from the foreign Ministry
spokesperson and at the same time though
I think some of it would be expected
it's often um quite a difficult
relationship with South Africa because
um o of the fact it has very strong
support uh for the Palestinian cause um
often identifies the ruling ANC party in
South Africa between the Palestinian
nationalist struggle and its own past
struggle against AP
parde and Yan we um heard about those uh
gun battles in hanun what more can you
tell us about what's
happening yes so residents of hunas were
telling us that they could hear very
loudly uh gum battles taking place on
the streets presumably between Hamas
Fighters and and Israeli soldiers who
are there deep in the heart of this city
the main southern city o of Gaza seen as
a place where perhaps the Hamas leaders
the likes of Yahya Sina whose Hometown
it is he is the leader of Hamas in Gaza
perhaps they could be hiding in
underground tunnels there um that's what
the Israeli military thinks uh We've
also had Israeli artillery pushing into
the city artillery shells um and also uh
more Israeli air strikes three people
killed according to medics um by an air
strike earlier this morning um and so
really that does appear to be a main
focus still of Israel's ground offensive
but at the same time it is pushing into
these three Urban refugee camps in the
center of the Gaza Strip where there've
also been air strikes ahead of the
advance of Israeli tanks overnight and
we're seeing many pictures aren't we of
those being displaced uh by this latest
offensive the UN saying around
150,000 uh people are there safe places
for people to
travel I mean it's extremely difficult
what we're seeing is that people are
using whatever means they can either
fleeing on foot using donkey carts in
some cases a few people have got their
vehicles with enough fuel and to make
the journey and they're sort of going in
short hops as they fled um from these
different camps in the center of Gaza
Strip as Israel's ground offensive has
advanced just in the past week heading
first to deala a big town there which
has also been hit by air strikes as we
um and then going south into Rafa the
town on the Egyptian border um but of
course this is now the most densely
populated part of the Gaza Strip there
are hundreds of thousands of people who
are displaced there uh the UN says that
it's extremely difficult uh to deal with
in terms of they're seeing now a spread
of disease in the areas where there are
these overcrowded shelters and people
living in very difficult conditions some
of them sleeping rough or else in sort
of makeshift that they've set up